README.md, before:

# StatsD PHP Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thephpleague/statsd.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thephpleague/statsd)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/league/statsd/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/league/statsd)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/league/statsd/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/league/statsd)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/thephpleague/statsd/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")


A library for working with StatsD in PHP.


## Install

Via Composer

```json
{
    "require": {
        "league/statsd": "1.4.*"
    }
}
```

To use the Statsd Service Provider, you must register the provider when bootstrapping your Laravel application.

Find the `providers` key in your `app/config/app.php` and register the Statsd Service Provider.

```php
    'providers' => array(
        // ...
        'League\StatsD\Laravel\Provider\StatsdServiceProvider',
    )
```

Find the `aliases` key in your `app/config/app.php` and add the Statsd Facade Alias.

```php
    'aliases' => array(
        // ...
        'Statsd' => 'League\StatsD\Laravel\Facade\StatsdFacade',
    )
```

For Laravel 5:

Find the `providers` key in your `config/app.php` and register the Statsd Service Provider.

```php
    'providers' => [
        // ...
        League\StatsD\Laravel5\Provider\StatsdServiceProvider::class,
    ]
```

Find the `aliases` key in your `app/config/app.php` and add the Statsd Facade Alias.

```php
    'aliases' => [
        // ...
        'Statsd' => League\StatsD\Laravel5\Facade\StatsdFacade::class,
    ]
```

## Usage

### Configuring

```php
$statsd = new League\StatsD\Client();
$statsd->configure(array(
    'host' => '127.0.0.1',
    'port' => 8125,
    'namespace' => 'example'
));
```

OR

```php
$statsd1 = StatsD\Client::instance('server1')->configure(array(...));
$statsd2 = StatsD\Client::instance('server2')->configure(array(...));
```

The StatsD client wait for `ini_get('default_socket_timeout')` seconds when opening the socket by default. To reduce
this timeout, add `'timeout' => <float>` to your config.

The StatsD client will throw a `ConnectionException` if it is unable to send data to the StatsD server. You may choose
to disable these exceptions and log a PHP warning instead if you wish. To do so, include the following in your config:

```
    'throwConnectionExceptions' => false
```

If omitted, this option defaults to `true`.

### Counters

```php
$statsd->increment('web.pageview');
$statsd->decrement('storage.remaining');
$statsd->increment(array(
    'first.metric',
    'second.metric'
), 2);
$statsd->increment('web.clicks', 1, 0.5);
```

### Gauges

```php
$statsd->gauge('api.logged_in_users', 123456);
```


### Sets

```php
$userID = 23;
$statsd->set('api.unique_logins', $userID);
```

### Timers

```php
$statsd->timing('api.response_time', 256);
```

## Timing Blocks

```php
$statsd->time('api.dbcall', function () {
    // this code execution will be timed and recorded in ms
});
```

## Testing

    phpunit


## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.


## Credits

- [Marc Qualie](https://github.com/marcqualie)
- [All Contributors](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/contributors)


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/blob/master/LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

Adding support for lumen (#35)
* Adding support for lumen
* Ensure we are looking for the boolean value not the index 0

README.md, after:

# StatsD PHP Library

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/thephpleague/statsd.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/thephpleague/statsd)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/league/statsd/downloads.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/league/statsd)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/league/statsd/v/stable.png)](https://packagist.org/packages/league/statsd)
[![Bitdeli Badge](https://d2weczhvl823v0.cloudfront.net/thephpleague/statsd/trend.png)](https://bitdeli.com/free "Bitdeli Badge")


A library for working with StatsD in PHP.


## Install

Via Composer

```json
{
    "require": {
        "league/statsd": "1.4.*"
    }
}
```

To use the Statsd Service Provider, you must register the provider when bootstrapping your Laravel application.

Find the `providers` key in your `app/config/app.php` and register the Statsd Service Provider.

```php
    'providers' => array(
        // ...
        'League\StatsD\Laravel\Provider\StatsdServiceProvider',
    )
```

Find the `aliases` key in your `app/config/app.php` and add the Statsd Facade Alias.

```php
    'aliases' => array(
        // ...
        'Statsd' => 'League\StatsD\Laravel\Facade\StatsdFacade',
    )
```

For Laravel 5:

Find the `providers` key in your `config/app.php` and register the Statsd Service Provider.

```php
    'providers' => [
        // ...
        League\StatsD\Laravel5\Provider\StatsdServiceProvider::class,
    ]
```

Find the `aliases` key in your `app/config/app.php` and add the Statsd Facade Alias.

```php
    'aliases' => [
        // ...
        'Statsd' => League\StatsD\Laravel5\Facade\StatsdFacade::class,
    ]
```

For Lumen:

Register the provider in your boostrap app file ```boostrap/app.php```

Add the following line in the "Register Service Providers"  section at the bottom of the file. 

```php
$app->register(\League\StatsD\Laravel5\Provider\StatsdServiceProvider::class);
```

Copy the config file ```statsd.php``` manually from the directory ```/vendor/league/statsd/config``` to the directory ```/config ``` (you may need to create this directory).

Package Configuration

In your `.env` file, add the configuration:

```php
STATSD_HOST=127.0.0.1
STATSD_PORT=8125
STATSD_NAMESPACE=
```

## Usage

### Configuring

```php
$statsd = new League\StatsD\Client();
$statsd->configure(array(
    'host' => '127.0.0.1',
    'port' => 8125,
    'namespace' => 'example'
));
```

OR

```php
$statsd1 = StatsD\Client::instance('server1')->configure(array(...));
$statsd2 = StatsD\Client::instance('server2')->configure(array(...));
```

The StatsD client wait for `ini_get('default_socket_timeout')` seconds when opening the socket by default. To reduce
this timeout, add `'timeout' => <float>` to your config.

The StatsD client will throw a `ConnectionException` if it is unable to send data to the StatsD server. You may choose
to disable these exceptions and log a PHP warning instead if you wish. To do so, include the following in your config:

```
    'throwConnectionExceptions' => false
```

If omitted, this option defaults to `true`.

### Counters

```php
$statsd->increment('web.pageview');
$statsd->decrement('storage.remaining');
$statsd->increment(array(
    'first.metric',
    'second.metric'
), 2);
$statsd->increment('web.clicks', 1, 0.5);
```

### Gauges

```php
$statsd->gauge('api.logged_in_users', 123456);
```


### Sets

```php
$userID = 23;
$statsd->set('api.unique_logins', $userID);
```

### Timers

```php
$statsd->timing('api.response_time', 256);
```

## Timing Blocks

```php
$statsd->time('api.dbcall', function () {
    // this code execution will be timed and recorded in ms
});
```

## Testing

    phpunit


## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.


## Credits

- [Marc Qualie](https://github.com/marcqualie)
- [All Contributors](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/contributors)


## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](https://github.com/thephpleague/statsd/blob/master/LICENSE) for more information.
